CS-499-X2150
Computer Science Capstone – Enhancement Two
Algorithms and Data Structure
Miguel Ovalles
Southern New Hampshire University

	The artifact I selected for algorithms and data structure was the final project I completed during my IT-145 course in 2018. The program is a java-based program that is set up for authenticating zoo employees. When the program is executed or run it will prompt a user to log in and if the user does not quit the program initially, the user’s entered username is confirmed via a credentials file. When I initially completed the program, it was set to run and confirm the user’s credentials in a text file. I found that it wasn’t the best manner to store the data or the most efficient. In deciding what updates to make for this program for this part of the enhancements, I decided it was more efficient and better practice to use a spreadsheet to store the data and read from. I then decided to use a csv file for this. I was able to use four separate columns to store the username’s, the md5 hash info, the user’s passwords and their assigned role. When the user successfully logs in the, program reads the assigned role for the user from the credentials file, then looks for a file with the same name as the role after the .txt extension is trimmed and then displays the stored text from the role file on the screen for the user. The user is then prompted to select whether they want to stay logged in or not. 
	Updating this artifact in this manner allowed me to show the skills I learned during the course. I was able to review the previous program I created and worked on some time ago and be able to decipher and understand what I did, thanks to my comments and files. I was able to interpret what I had done, successfully review the program and determine what I found to be a more efficient manner of executing the program. I originally overthought the complexity and efficiency of the program and considered re-writing the main zooAuthentication program and re-organizing the classes and execution. I decided not to do that, as I liked and preferred the way I already had it and found the flow of the program adequate. I reviewing the program I remembered the use of the text file and thought that it wouldn’t be practical to add and manage users and their credentials in a text file unless the program wrote into the file itself. That is when I decided to update the credentials file into a spreadsheet and replicated the “columns” in the text file into actual columns in the spreadsheet. I then make the necessary updates to the program to look at the csv file by updating the file name and the scanning part that previously had .txt as it searched. 
	I believe I met the course objectives with this enhancement. The point was to make the program more efficient or to make it more complex. I feel that I made both. I made it more efficient by storing the credentials in a more organized and easily updated manner. I also made it more complex by changing the extension of what the program was previously looking for. 
	The main issue I faced was trying to decide what to update. As most IT professionals do, or as I have found they do, they go to the most complex manner of completing something first, before considering the simpler path. I overthought it and went right to complex. After sitting and considering things I reviewed the program a few times before deciding what actions to take. The second issue I faced was loading the program into NetBeans. I couldn’t remember how we had previously set NetBeans up and had issues getting the program to load, build and run. I figured it out after a few tries. After that I just had to test the program out and troubleshoot the errors I received until I figured out what needed to be updated. Aside from updating the credentials file extension to look for I had to make an update to another row of code that was expecting the text file. Once I updated that, the program ran successfully.
Miguel
